(touches com panel) S.S. Tsiolkovsky, repeat your message.
Captain... what we just heard is, well...impossible.
(quietly) I believe that last sound we heard was an emergency hatch being blown.
Indications of what humans would call... a 'wild party?'
Correction, sir, blown out.
A common mistake, sir...
I am already listed in several biomechanical texts, Doctor.
Specifics, sir?
Ah. The body Geordi discovered.
To 'someone,' 'somewhere.'
About that... did the doctor believe I was boasting?
At least several hours. (looks up) But what I said was a statement of fact.
(continuing) Perhaps she will look it up.
Can you provide more information, sir? Seeking an instance of someone showering with their clothing on is...is...
(puzzled) Why should anyone wish to expend their time in such a search?
Ah, a human proverb! As in folklore, or an historical allusion, or tribal memories, or...
Enterprise history. Aberrant behavior. Medical cross reference...
Aye sir, downloading.
(to Picard) Inquiry, sir... 'snootful?'
Captain, in another forty-one minutes will see the information from the Tsiolkovsky downloaded to us.
Slow, sir? The Tsiolkovsky has been eight months in accumulating it.
(continuing) Any stellar material it threw this way we could still outrun on half impulse power.
Confirmed, sir. And there is a rather peculiar limerick being delivered by someone in the shuttlecraft bay. I am not sure I understand it... (quoting) There was a young lady from Venus whose body was shaped like --
(to Worf) Did I say something wrong?
Yes, sir.
Lieutenant Yar?
Captain Picard ordered me to escort you to Sickbay, Lieutenant.
(considering it, then) I am sure he meant 'now.' (indicates) So you need time to get into uniform...
Chronological age? No, I am afraid I am not conversant with your ---
I am sorry. I did not know...
Of course, but...
In every way, of course. I have been programmed in multiple techniques, a broad variety of pleasuring...
Fully, Captain, fully.
We are more alike than unlike, my dear captain.
(continuing) I have pores. Humans have pores. (turns hands over) I have fingerprints. Humans have fingerprints. My chemical nutrients are like your blood. (looks appealingly at Picard) If you prick me, do I not leak?
Nice to see you, Wesley. What... ?
Ah, a game!
No. This will take slightly more time than we have, sir.
If we had just a minute more, sir...
I believe she is doing well. Her appetite has increased by seven percent, and she is starting to engage in pre-natal behavior.
I have noticed that many humans prefer not to know in order to experience the surprise during birth. I believe I will preserve the mystery until then.
(to Ogawa, re: Spot) I have spent the past nine weeks as an expectant parent. I would be happy to share my insights with your husband. (beat) If my experience is any indication -- he will need all the help he can get.
That would be inadvisable, sir. The asteroid field is unusually dense -- the Enterprise is too large to navigate through it safely.
(to Picard, on the move) Captain, I will need a few minutes to take care of some personal affairs.
(nods) It is possible that it will take several days for Captain Picard and me to complete our mission. I would prefer to have a human present to supervise the birthing process.
I have noticed that you are the only other member of the crew whom Spot seems to like.
She is to you. However there have been several... injuries when other crewmembers have attempted to care for her.
The... 'place'?
I am not certain. Spot has escaped from my quarters on several occasions. And there are twelve male felines on board. (beat) I intend to run a full DNA analysis on the kittens once they are --
(to com) On my way, Captain.
(continuing) Goodbye, Spot. I believe you are in... good hands.
Captain, the ship is not at the pre-arranged coordinates.
I do not know. I am unable to raise them on any communication channel.
(off console) The Enterprise appears to be adrift. I am reading power fluctuations on all decks...
There are life signs, but the sensor readings are highly distorted. I am unable to identify specific lifeforms.
(off panel) Main power is off-line. All systems are in Emergency or Standby mode... and there is no response from any manned station.
(works) I cannot access the internal sensors from here. We will have to go to the Bridge.
It is a mixture of methane, uric acid and ammonia. There is also an abundance of pheromones in the air.
Yes, sir. I am able to discern over three hundred different vocalizations.
(off tricorder) It is composed of reptilian DNA... I believe it is an epidermal layer that has been cast off during molting.
Yes, sir. I cannot explain it. There are no species aboard the Enterprise that shed their skin in this fashion.
No, sir.
(off tricorder) Her DNA is in a state of ribocyatic flux... her genetic codes are being re-sequenced... and her cells are mutating as a result. (beat) At a fundamental level, she is no longer human.
(scanning) Her respiratory tissue has become capable of metabolizing water as well as air... and her eyes have developed nictitating membranes... (beat) I believe she has become... amphibian, sir.
There is Klingon DNA in the wound. It is saliva.
It would appear so.
(re: Troi) I will need to run a full biospectral analysis.
His upper spinal column has been broken in three places.
Yes. However, the mutation was in its initial stages when he died.
(off console) Captain, I am picking up one thousand eleven individual life readings within the ship. All exhibit a genetic flux similar to the one we observed in Counselor Troi.
(off console) Most of the lifeforms are scattered throughout ship's quarters... but there are several large concentrations in the arboretum, and the aquatics lab.
(off tricorder) His cranial plates have thickened by twenty percent -- his brain is much smaller, sir. I doubt he can comprehend our language.
Yes, sir. His DNA would seem to confirm that observation.
Captain... I believe the crew is de-evolving.
I have analyzed Commander Riker's DNA structure. A synthetic T-cell has invaded his genetic code. This T-cell has begun to activate his latent introns.
They are genetic codes which are normally dormant. They are evolutionary holdovers -- sequences of DNA that provided key physical and behavioral characteristics millions of years ago, but are no longer necessary. (beat) For instance, Counselor Troi's gill slits and other amphibious characteristics were derived from introns which still contain amphibious codes.
That is correct. In her case, the DNA is creating an amphibious lifeform which became extinct over fifty million years ago.
Yes, sir. I would say... Australopithacine. (beat) Each of these stages is another link in the evolutionary chain, stretching back to the origins of all lifeforms on Earth. (beat) Because introns can include genetic material from many different species over millions of years of evolution, it is possible that a wide variety of transformations is occurring among the crew.
All humanoid life has a similar genetic pattern. The virus should affect non-human crewmembers in the same way. They are each deevolving to earlier forms of life on their homeworlds.
(continuing) I feel I must point out, sir, that you have become infected with the intron virus, as well.
According to my calculations, within the next twelve hours, you will begin to exhibit the first signs of your eventual transformation.
I believe you will also de-evolve into some form of early primate. Possibly similar to a lemur, or pygmy marmoset.
I am uncertain. We will need to run several micro-cellular scans. However, the ship's main computer has been damaged. Possibly by crewmembers who did not know what they were doing. (thinks) The computer in my quarters has an independent processing and memory storage unit, and should not be affected. I suggest we work from there.
I believe Spot has had her kittens.
Yes. I am curious as to why Spot is not taking care of them.
Spot... ?
No, sir.
These kittens were born within the last twenty-four hours. It appears that Spot's transformation took place at approximately the same time.
I believe so. For some reason, the intron virus was not passed on to the kittens. I do not know why.
That is true. The placental barrier, maternal antibodies and amniotic fluid all serve as a filtration system.
It would take further research, but I believe that to be effective on humanoid crewmembers, humanoid antibodies would be necessary.
Nurse Ogawa recently became pregnant...
I have traced her combadge signal to Deck Seventeen, Section Twentyone Alpha.
(off console) One of the warp plasma vents has failed. Main Engineering has been abandoned -- there is no one there to fix the problem.
I can repair the damaged plasma vent from here.
I believe it was Lieutenant Barclay. He appeared to be partially transformed into an arachnid.
(nods) I recognized the chitin colorations. He is becoming a member of the Pisauridae family.
Captain. Are you all right?
You may be experiencing the initial stages of your transformation. Early primates were often prey for larger carnivores -- as a result, their instincts probably included a heightened sense of awareness.
Captain.
(re: Ogawa) I have analyzed Nurse Ogawa's embryo. It has been unaffected by the virus. I believe I can use her amniotic fluid as a template for a retro-virus. It would neutralize the synthetic T-cell, and re-establish the original genetic patterns of each host.
It will not take long to isolate the appropriate genetic material. However, I will need to get the Sickbay computer back on --
(off tricorder) It is large, approximately two hundred kilograms... and it is heavily armored with an exoskeleton of some sort... (reacts) The lifesigns appear to be... Klingon.
We have no way of knowing if the stun setting will have any effect on him, sir. And a higher setting may kill him.
There are crewmembers in the corridors and other sections of the ship. It would be much easier for him to capture and consume one of them, rather than attempt to break through a door.
What are you suggesting, Captain?
If that is true, then he must now by trying to reach her.
The mating instinct is quite strong in Klingon biology. I am not certain what would serve as an effective lure.
(working) I am extracting a blood sample from one of her sebaceous glands, where pheromones are produced.
(continuing, working) I believe I can activate the pheromones with a bio-activant solution.
I believe this will produce the desired effect. (beat) I will use it to draw Worf to a different part of the ship.
Captain, that would be extremely unwise. Worf may be much faster than --
(to computer) Computer -- activate medical database.
Computer, bypass database system -- activate local subprocessors only.
(to computer) Computer, display progress of genetic re-sequencing.
Computer, increase nucleotide substitution by thirty-two percent.
(taps combadge) Data to Captain Picard.
The retro-virus is working. I can release it into the ship's atmosphere in a gaseous state, but it will take some time to take effect.
The delay will also make it possible for Stellar Dynamics to complete their study of the Vodrey Nebula.
Starfleet records contain no mention of the Duras sisters after their departure from Deep Space Nine.
We are approaching Kalla Three.
It is difficult to say. The magnesite is interfering with bioreadings.
Then you are denying involvement in illegal mining activities.
I suspect that you are feigning ignorance.
Would you be willing to share your information with us?
We could certainly provide you with passage off this planet in exchange for information.
What kind of ship do they have?
Gather your belongings. It is time to leave.
(off console) I am detecting a vessel holding position near the third planet... (works) It is a Yridian freighter.
The resonance signature indicates that there is magnesite ore present...
(off console) Sir, readings indicate that there are only five hundred kilograms of ore in the Yridian's hold...
(off console) Sir, that would place the ore directly off the ship's starboard bow.
